Now that I've imported
the CSV file into Tableau,
let's play with how we look at the data.
First, I'll bring in the stores
just by Store ID as a column and
then I'll bring in PC1 as a row.
And since it's in store
order basically and
fairly random I am going to
sort it by the value of PC1.
And then I am going to bring in
the labels of the State, and
let's take a look at the whole screen.
If we look at the values for
the individual object components you
will notice easily from the sorting.
That the components with the lowest
negative values tend to be the warmer
states in the US, for example,
Florida, Texas, and Louisiana.
And the components with the higher
positive values tend to be the cooler
states, so we have Minnesota,
North Dakota, and New York.
Now if we duplicate this sheet,
and interchange PC1 for PC2, where
this is sorted in the same order as
when we were looking at the PC1 graph.
We find that there's no real pattern.
This is what we would expect because if
you remember the second component is at
complete right angles to the first one.
And we would expect no
correlation between the two.
So even though the PC1 values themselves
don't relate to the actual temperatures.
What the PCA process has done is
aggregate as much variance as it can for
all 12 months into one component.
That's why the chart of PC1 corresponds
with real temperature patterns.
The second component takes
whatever variance is left over and
does the same thing.
But as you can see it doesn't
correlate at all with temperatures.
This happens until all
the variance is accounted for.
So in this case, we actually end
up with 12 components calculated.